Analysis of SABRmetric Statistics
================
by tut2\_team5

## Summary

> *“I made baseball as much fun as doing your taxes.”*
> 
>   - Bill James, father of modern Sabermetrics (The Simpsons S22E03
>     “MoneyBART”)

Statistical study of baseball (also known as Sabermetrics or
SABRmetrics) has become an increasingly popular tool both for fans
seeking to understand the game and for organizations seeking to optimize
their rosters and build better teams. Our group will look at how
effectively different measurements for evaluating individual player
performance predict team success.

The datasets used come from two main sources
[retrosheet.org](retrosheet.org) and [fangraphs.com](fangraphs.com), we
constrict our sample size to the years 1998-2019 for two main reasons.
The 30 team MLB format only started in 1998 and by then most teams had
their data recorded electronically so data is more available and
reliable. The 2020 season is discarded since, it was started late and
only 60 games were played which much less than the usual amount of
matches in a season.

The data from [fangraphs.com](fangraphs.com) had to be web scraped,
which was a painful process of trial error and error handling. Whereas,
the retrosheet data was conviently put in dataset by the Chadwick
bureau.

Write-up of your project and findings go here. Think of this as the text
of your presentation. The length should be roughly 5 minutes when read
out loud. Although pacing varies, a 5-minute speech is roughly 750
words. To use the word count addin, select the text you want to count
the words of (probably this is the Summary section of this document, go
to Addins, and select the `Word count` addin). This addin counts words
using two different algorithms, but the results should be similar and as
long as you’re in the ballpark of 750 words, you’re good\! The addin
will ignore code chunks and only count the words in prose.

You can also load your data here and present any analysis results /
plots, but I strongly urge you to keep that to a minimum (maybe only the
most important graphic, if you have one you can choose). And make sure
to hide your code with `echo = FALSE` unless the point you are trying to
make is about the code itself. Your results with proper output and
graphics go in your presentation, this space is for a brief summary of
your project.

## Presentation

Our presentation can be found [here](presentation/presentation.html).

## Data

Include a citation for your data here. See
<http://libraryguides.vu.edu.au/c.php?g=386501&p=4347840> for guidance
on proper citation for datasets. If you got your data off the web, make
sure to note the retrieval date.

## References

List any references here. You should, at a minimum, list your data
source.

data pulled from following sources (will write up proper citations
later):

<https://sabr.org/sabermetrics/>

<https://www.retrosheet.org/>

<http://chadwick-bureau.com/open-data/>

<https://www.baseball-reference.com/>

<https://www.fangraphs.com>
